Quick Setup Guide for Basic Features
------------------------------------

   This small tutorial will help those who want to get the frontend up and running without a fuss...
Only the minimal required steps for a quick start are covered here.

   NOTE: starting from version 8.3, MAME/arcade emulators and games are no longer required by the frontend.


Installing
----------

01. Uncompress frontend's package anywhere you want ("Program Files" and "Users" folders are NOT recommended!)

02. Copy extra files: catver.ini (or category.ini; version.ini), nplayers.ini, languages.ini to "frontend_dir\arcade\filters\" folder (MAME only, optional)

03. Copy AntoPISA's mess.ini to "frontend_dir\arcade\filters\" folder for proper MAME non-arcade machines filtering (optional, MAME 0.162 or newer required)

04. Get category.ini and version.ini for HBMAME (AntoPISA website), rename them to "category_hb.ini" and "version_hb.ini" and copy them to
    "frontend_dir\arcade\filters\" folder (HBMAME only, optional)

05. Copy docs files: mameinfo.dat, messinfo.dat, history.dat, story.dat (MAMEscore v2), scores3.htm, marp.dat to "mame_dir\dats\" folder or MAME's root folder (MAME only, optional)

06. Run "EmuLoader.exe" to start the frontend
    After the initialization screen, if there are no games list files in "frontend_dir\arcade\games\" or "frontend_dir\arcade\mame_softwarelist_games\" or
    "frontend_dir\console_computer\games\" folders, the "clean install" dialog will appear. If not, the frontend will load available games and show the main screen

07. On the clean install dialog, select the options you want and click "Continue" button.
    To create an arcade games list, you must select an arcade emulator. to create console/computer/handheld games lists, you must select games folders. Emulators are optional.
    You have the option to select emulators without creating games lists!

08. On "Arcade Emulators Setup" screen, select the arcade system you want to setup

09. Select an emulator file (.exe; .bat; .cmd)
    "version info" will be filled automatically, except for batch files. You can edit emulator file and version info manually
    NOTE: make sure to click "Update System" button if changing emulator file manually!

10. If you need to configure emulator's default options, click "Default Settings" button (optional)

11. Repeat steps #08 to #10 for the other systems

10. Click on "OK" button

11. A new dialog will show to select what scan mode you want (MAME and arcade), so game ROMs/CHDs can be validated (Emu Loader's own audit system)

12. Optionally, you can select what type of MAME sets will be scanned in 'Scan MAME Sets' (MAME 0.162 or newer required)

13. If you want to create a list of non-arcade MAME games (MAME software lists), enable 'Create Software List Games' checkbox (optional)
    You can customize what software lists will be used by clicking in the 'custom' blue text; disabled software lists will not be created
    or added to the games list (MAME 0.162 or newer required)

14. If you want MAME/HBMAME device sets with no ROMs listed in your games list, enable 'Device Sets With No ROMs' checkbox (optional)
    I recommend to leave it disabled as these sets are pointless for gamers, MAME can't run them and they are not required for games validation

15. Click "OK" button

16. Next, the Console/Computer Emulators Setup" screen will open, if you checked that option in the clean install dialog (systems ported from EmuCon frontend)

17. Select the console or computer system you want to setup

18. Select the emulator tab you want (you can use 4 emulator executables per system!)
    Always use "Emulator 1" tab for the first emulator

19. Select an emulator file (.exe; .bat; .cmd)
    The media type parameters for cartridge, floppy disk, cassette tape, disc, hard disk drive will be filled automatically

20. You may edit these parameters, if needed. They are saved in "console_computer\emulator_parameters.ini" file

21. Repeat steps #17 to #20 for the other systems

22. Click on "OK" button

23. If you checked options to create gamess lists, EL will start the process for all available systems, one by one, including MAME software list games
    This process should not take too long. Keep an eye on the timer next to the progress bar. You don't need to do anything... just wait until it finishes

24. After games lists are created, EL will validate the arcade games based on the scan mode you chose.
    MAME sets might take some time to be validated, depending on how many games you have. Please be patient

25. After everything is done, frontend's main screen will show up. If you created games lists, they will be loaded
    Available games have colored icons. Missing games have gray icons. Games with missing ROMs/CHDs have a red color text and gray icons (MAME and arcade systems only)

26. Why are you still reading this ? Start playing!!! ^-^


NOTES:
  -> To select what MAME machine you want to run a software list game with, use "Machine to Run Game" option in games popup menu (mouse right-click)
     If no machine is selected, the dialog will show up on the game's first run. Software list games are non-arcade games (console/computer/handheld). MAME v0.162 or newer is required

  -> You can run MAME software list games using console/computer/handheld emulators (BlueMSX, WinUAE, WinVICE, Stella, ZSNES and many others)

  -> You can run console/computer/handheld games ported from EmuCon frontend using the selected MAME in "Arcade Emulators Setup"; you can even select what MAME machine you want to play with

  -> WARNING: MAME software list games are NOT recognized as console/computer/handheld games by the frontend!!!



Setup Image Categories
----------------------

   This section tells you how to set snapshots folders for all your systems (folders for all image categories, not just game snapshots),
   their visibility and background color.

    Note 1: if the emulator already have a game snapshot path setting, EL will load this setting automatically (MAME, HBMAME).
    Note 2: if MAME's "ui.ini" file is found (v0.172 or newer), image category path settings will be read from that file (titles, flyers, cabinets, etc...)
            
01. Go to main menu "Images", "Category Settings" (or call th popup menu in images panel). A new screen will open

02. Select a system and then a category

03. Choose a folder for the selected category (emulator relative paths are supported)
    note 1: only backslash "\" chars are valid!
    note 2: only ANSI folder names are supported

04. Change category visibility and background color as needed (optional)

05. Repeat the process for other systems (steps #02 thru #04)

06. When you're done, click "Apply" button to confirm changes or click "Abort" button to cancel changes


Change Image Layouts Settings
-----------------------------

    Layouts show multiple image categories at the same time. You can set image categories for each layout.

01. Select the layout you want to edit

02. Change layout visibility as needed (untick their checkboxes)

03. To customize the categories for the selected layout, click on a category icon you wan to change and
    choose the one you want (see the layout image sample next to the categories bars for more details)

04. For layouts with multiple panels, you can hide the 2nd and/or 3rd panel

05. Repeat the process for other layouts (steps #01 thru #04)

06. When you're done, click "Apply" button to confirm changes or click "Abort" button to cancel changes


NOTES:
  -> You can use zipped images. Check "el-readme.txt" for their filenames ("Features" section)

  -> Do not use the same image category more than once on a multiple panel layout or the frontend will crash

  -> Game ROMs/CHDs for MAME software lists must be placed in sub-folders using same name as xml filenames from "mamedir\hash\" folder
     Do not select these sub-folders in MAME ROMs paths (mame.ini)

  -> Snapshots files for MAME software list games must be placed in sub-folders using same name as xml filenames from "mamedir\hash\" folder
     
     eg.: snap\msx1_cart\goonies.png
          -> softlist game "The Goonies" ("msx1_cart.xml": MSX1 Cartridges)

          snap\goonies.png
          -> arcade game "Vs. The Goonies"



How to enable MAMu_ Icons (custom game icons)
-------------------------------------------

   Can't find out how to display MAMu_ icons into the games list ? Follow the steps below.

01. Make sure the icons path is correct. Click on main tool bar button "MAMu_ Icons" and select "Select Folder". The preferences screen will open
    ... or open the preferences screen in main menu and go to "Games List / Columns" tab

02. Click on "Select" button. Only a single folder can be selected and it will be used for all systems
    If you are using MAME v0.172 or newer, this settings is automatically read from MAME's "ui.ini" file...

03. After selecting folder, click on MAMu_ Icons tool bar buttons again (main screen)

04. There are other settings to customize how icons are loaded, use them as you like. If unsure, leave them alone...

05. Select "Enable MAMu_ Icons" to enable or disable this feature (or use "Ctrl+M" hotkey)

NOTES:
  -> You can have multiple size icons on each gamename.ico file (48x48, 32x32, 24x24, 16x16)
     ... color depth from 256 colors to XP icons (RGB+alpha channel)

  -> Zipped icons can also be used. Make sure to name it "icons.zip"

  -> Relative paths are supported; the path is relative to MAME's directory



-- Master Control: "End of line." (quote from "TRON") --
